feat: add integrate autoware with your vehicle (#109)
autowarefoundation/autoware-documentation: docs/how-to-guides/how-to-integrate-autoware-with-your-vehicle.md

# How to integrate Autoware with your vehicle

## 1. Prepare your real vehicle hardware

Prerequisites for the vehicle:

> - An onboard computer that satisfies the Autoware Installation prerequisites (see [here](https://autowarefoundation.github.io/autoware-documentation/main/installation/autoware/source-installation/#prerequisites))

Reviewer: https://developers.google.com/style/link-text#write-link-text

```suggestion
- An onboard computer that satisfies the [Autoware installation prerequisites](https://autowarefoundation.github.io/autoware-documentation/main/installation/autoware/source-installation/#prerequisites)
```

# How to integrate Autoware with your vehicle

## 1. Prepare your real vehicle hardware

Prerequisites for the vehicle:

- An onboard computer that satisfies the Autoware Installation prerequisites (see [here](https://autowarefoundation.github.io/autoware-documentation/main/installation/autoware/source-installation/#prerequisites))
- The following devices attached
  - Drive-by-wire interface
  - LiDAR
  - Optional: Inertial measurement unit
  - Optional: Camera
  - Optional: GNSS

## 2. Create maps

You need both a pointcloud map and a vector map in order to use Autoware.

### Create a pointcloud map

> Use third-party tools such as a LiDAR-based SLAM (simultaneous localization and mapping) package to create a pointcloud map in the `.pcd` format.

Reviewer: Listing up some typical and concrete tools is better.
https://github.com/autowarefoundation/autoware/discussions/173

```
- [HDL](https://github.com/koide3/hdl_graph_slam)
- [LIO-SAM](https://github.com/TixiaoShan/LIO-SAM)
- ...
```

> Use third-party tools such as a LiDAR-based SLAM (simultaneous localization and mapping) package to create a pointcloud map in the `.pcd` format.

Reviewer: I feel capitalizing characters is easier to understand.

```suggestion
Use third-party tools such as a LiDAR-based SLAM (Simultaneous Localization And Mapping) package to create a pointcloud map in the `.pcd` format.
```

### Create vector map

Use third-party tools such as [TIER IV's Vector Map Builder](https://tools.tier4.jp/) to create a Lanelet2 format `.osm` file.

> ## 3. Create your meta-repository
> 
> Create your Autoware repository.

Reviewer: Better? :thinking: 

```suggestion
## 3. Create your Autoware meta-repository

Create your Autoware meta-repository.
```

> One easy way is to fork [autowarefoundation/autoware](https://github.com/autowarefoundation/autoware) and clone it ([how to fork repository on github](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo)).

Reviewer: Better? :thinking: 

```suggestion
One easy way is to fork [autowarefoundation/autoware](https://github.com/autowarefoundation/autoware) and clone it.
Refer to [GitHub Docs](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo) for how to fork a repository.
```

```bash

> git clone https://github.com/YOUR_NAME/autoware.YOURS.git

Reviewer: By default, no suffix is added.

If you add a suffix, it's better to write like `If you set up multiple types of vehicles, adding a suffix like "autoware.vehicle_A" or "autoware.vehicle_B" is recommended.`

```suggestion
git clone https://github.com/YOUR_NAME/autoware.git
```

```

## 4. Create the description packages of your vehicle

Next, you need to create description packages that define the vehicle and sensor configuration of your vehicle.

> Once it is done, you can launch your vehicle model by specifying `vehicle_model:=YOUR_VEHICLE` `sensor_model:=SAMPLE_SENSOR_KIT` in the autoware launchers.

Reviewer: I guess it's difficult for people to understand if you say this here.
So I feel it's better to say it later.

```suggestion
```

Create the following two packages:

- YOUR_VEHICLE_launch (see [here](https://github.com/autowarefoundation/sample_vehicle_launch) for example)
- YOUR_SENSOR_KIT_launch (see [here](https://github.com/autowarefoundation/sample_sensor_kit_launch) for example)

> Once created, you need to update the `autoware.repos` file of your cloned Autoware repository to refer to these two description packages.

Reviewer: I feel showing the diff is better.

``````suggestion
Once created, you need to update the `autoware.repos` file of your cloned Autoware repository to refer to these two description packages.

```diff
-  # sensor_kit
-  sensor_kit/sample_sensor_kit_launch:
-    type: git
-    url: https://github.com/autowarefoundation/sample_sensor_kit_launch.git
-    version: main
-  # vehicle
-  vehicle/sample_vehicle_launch:
-    type: git
-    url: https://github.com/autowarefoundation/sample_vehicle_launch.git
-    version: main
+  # sensor_kit
+  sensor_kit/YOUR_SENSOR_KIT_launch:
+    type: git
+    url: https://github.com/YOUR_NAME/YOUR_SENSOR_KIT_launch.git
+    version: main
+  # vehicle
+  vehicle/YOUR_VEHICLE_launch:
+    type: git
+    url: https://github.com/YOUR_NAME/YOUR_VEHICLE_launch.git
+    version: main
```
``````

### Adapt YOUR_VEHICLE_launch for autoware launching system

#### At YOUR_VEHICLE_description

Define URDF and parameters in the vehicle description package (refer to the [sample vehicle description package](https://github.com/autowarefoundation/sample_vehicle_launch/tree/main/sample_vehicle_description) for an example).

#### At YOUR_VEHICLE_launch

Create a launch file (refer to the [sample vehicle launch package](https://github.com/autowarefoundation/sample_vehicle_launch/tree/main/sample_vehicle_launch) for example).

> If you have multiple vehicles with similar hardware setup, you can specify `vehicle_id` to distinguish them.

Reviewer: Are there any reasons you used `similar`?

```suggestion
If you have multiple vehicles with the same hardware setup, you can specify `vehicle_id` to distinguish them.
```

Author: Not particularly. Thanks for pointing it out.

### Adapt YOUR_SENSOR_KIT_description for autoware launching system

#### At YOUR_SENSOR_KIT_description

Define URDF and extrinsic parameters for all the sensors here (refer to the [sample sensor kit description package](https://github.com/autowarefoundation/sample_sensor_kit_launch/tree/main/sample_sensor_kit_description) for example).
Note that you need to calibrate extrinsic parameters for all the sensors beforehand.

#### At YOUR_SENSOR_KIT_launch

Create `launch/sensing.launch.xml` that launches the interfaces of all the sensors on the vehicle. (refer to the [sample sensor kit launch package](https://github.com/autowarefoundation/sample_sensor_kit_launch/tree/main/sample_sensor_kit_launch) for example).

> !!! note
> At this point, you are now able to run Autoware's Planning Simulator to do a basic test of your vehicle and sensing packages.
> To do so, you need to build and install Autoware using your cloned repository. Follow the [steps for either Docker or source installation](https://autowarefoundation.github.io/autoware-documentation/main/installation/autoware/)) (starting from the dependency installation step) and then run the following command:

Reviewer: Not reflected.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/31987104/168578410-24a61a65-5436-41f6-863f-ee7dcee6ebc9.png)

```suggestion
!!! note

    At this point, you are now able to run Autoware's Planning Simulator to do a basic test of your vehicle and sensing packages.
    To do so, you need to build and install Autoware using your cloned repository. Follow the [steps for either Docker or source installation](https://autowarefoundation.github.io/autoware-documentation/main/installation/autoware/)) (starting from the dependency installation step) and then run the following command:
```

### Launch Autoware

Launch Autoware with the following command:

```bash
ros2 launch autoware_launch autoware.launch.xml vehicle_model:=YOUR_VEHICLE sensor_kit:=YOUR_SENSOR_KIT map_path:=/PATH/TO/YOUR/MAP
```

### Set initial pose

If GNSS is available, Autoware automatically initializes the vehicle's pose.

If not, you need to set the initial pose using the RViz GUI.

1. Click the 2D Pose estimate button in the toolbar, or hit the P key
2. In the 3D View pane, click and hold the left mouse button, and then drag to set the direction for the initial pose.

### Set goal pose

Set a goal pose for the ego vehicle.

1. Click the 2D Nav Goal button in the toolbar, or hit the G key
2. In the 3D View pane, click and hold the left mouse button, and then drag to set the direction for the goal pose.
   If successful, you will see the calculated planning path on RViz.

### Engage

In your terminal, execute the following command.

```bash
source ~/autoware.YOURS/install/setup.bash
ros2 topic pub /autoware.YOURS/engage autoware_auto_vehicle_msgs/msg/Engage "engage: true" -1
```

You can also engage via RViz with "AutowareStatePanel".

> The panel can be found in Panels > Add New Panel > tier4_state_rviz_plugin > AutowareStatePanel.

Reviewer: For better visibility.
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/31987104/168573128-c247e51e-5c90-44a1-a3a6-423fb1300a56.png)

```suggestion
The panel can be found in `Panels > Add New Panel > tier4_state_rviz_plugin > AutowareStatePanel`.
```

> Now the vehicle should drive along the calculated path!

Reviewer: I feel adding a picture or a screenshot is better.

Reviewer 2: A screenshot of the AutowareStatePanel, or a screenshot showing the vehicle driving along the path? I think that we should include a screenshot of the AutowareStatePanel.

Author: I agree with adding a screenshot of AutowareStatePanel. Will do that in a sec.

Author: I added a screenshot. What do you think? @kenji-miyake

Reviewer: Great. Thank you!
(But as a nitpick, it seems you haven't set the route yet.)

Author: I added a new figure with a planned route
https://github.com/autowarefoundation/autoware-documentation/pull/109/commits/32013251683652620cd661d185856fbc346a26f7

# How to integrate Autoware with your vehicle

> This page demonstrates how to integrate Autoware with a real vehicle.

Author: Thanks for all the comments @LalithVipulananthan !

## 1. Prepare your real vehicle hardware

Prerequisites for the vehicle:

- Onboard computer that satisfies the prerequisites (see [here](https://autowarefoundation.github.io/autoware-documentation/main/installation/autoware/source-installation/#prerequisites))
- The following devices attached
  - Actuator
  - LiDAR
  - Optional: Inertial measurement unit
  - Optional: Camera
  - Optional: GNSS

## 2. Create maps

You need both a pointcloud and a vector map to take full advantage of Autoware.
Since mapping algorithm such as SLAM (simultaneous localization and mapping) is not implemented in the current Autoware, you may need to use 3rd party tools for this step.

### Create a pointcloud map

Use 3rd party tools such as the LiDAR-based SLAM package to create a pointcloud map. Autoware supports the `.pcd` format for this map.

### Create vector map

> Autoware supports lanelet2 format for a vector map. Use 3rd party tools or [Vector Map Builder](https://tools.tier4.jp/) to get the `.osm` file.

Reviewer: (Tier -> TIER)

## 3. Create your meta-repository

A recommended way to integrate Autoware with your real vehicle is to create a meta-repository for the vehicle.
Create a forked repository of [autowarefoundation/autoware](https://github.com/autowarefoundation/autoware) (we refer to this as meta-repository) and clone the repository.

```bash

> git clone git@github.com:YOUR_NAME/autoware.YOURS.git

Reviewer 2: If we are going to describe how to clone the repository, then we should also explain how to fork it. We could either provide commands for both tasks (fork and clone), or provide links to GitHub documentation.

```

## 4. Create the description packages of your vehicle

Next, you need to create description packages that define the vehicle and sensor configuration of your vehicle.
Once it is done, you can launch your vehicle model by specifying `vehicle_model:=YOUR_VEHICLE` `sensor_model:=SAMPLE_SENSOR_KIT` in the autoware launchers.

Create the following two packages:

- YOUR_VEHICLE_launch (see [here](https://github.com/autowarefoundation/sample_vehicle_launch) for example)
- YOUR_SENSOR_KIT_launch (see [here](https://github.com/autowarefoundation/sample_sensor_kit_launch) for example)

> It is recommended you write the above two packages in `autoware.repos` file of your meta-repository.

Reviewer 2: My understanding is that description packages that are specific to the vehicle and sensor configuration have to be included, so reworded sentence to replace `recommended` with `you need to update`

```suggestion
Once created, you need to update the `autoware.repos` file of your cloned Autoware repository to refer to these two description packages.
```

### Adapt YOUR_VEHICLE_launch for autoware launching system

#### At YOUR_VEHICLE_description

> Define URDF and parameters in the package (see [here](https://github.com/autowarefoundation/sample_vehicle_launch/tree/main/sample_vehicle_description) for example).

Reviewer 2: [The Google Developer Documentation Style Guide recommends using meaningful link text](https://developers.google.com/style/link-text#write-link-text) (I have been guilty of doing this too 😅)

```suggestion
Define URDF and parameters in the vehicle description package (refer to the [sample vehicle description package](https://github.com/autowarefoundation/sample_vehicle_launch/tree/main/sample_vehicle_description) for an example).
```

#### At YOUR_VEHICLE_launch

> Create a launch file (see [here](https://github.com/autowarefoundation/sample_vehicle_launch/tree/main/sample_vehicle_launch) for example).

Reviewer 2: As per the earlier comment about meaningful link text:

```suggestion
Create a vehicle launch file (refer to the [sample vehicle launch](https://github.com/autowarefoundation/sample_vehicle_launch/tree/main/sample_vehicle_launch) for an example).
```

If you have multiple vehicles with similar hardware setup, you can specify `vehicle_id` to distinguish them.

### Adapt YOUR_SENSOR_KIT_description for autoware launching system

#### At YOUR_SENSOR_KIT_description

Define URDF and extrinsic parameters for all the sensors here (see [here](https://github.com/autowarefoundation/sample_sensor_kit_launch/tree/main/sample_sensor_kit_description) for example).
Note that you need to calibrate extrinsic parameters for all the sensors beforehand.

#### At YOUR_SENSOR_KIT_launch

Create `launch/sensing.launch.xml` that launches the interfaces of all the sensors on the vehicle. (see [here](https://github.com/autowarefoundation/sample_sensor_kit_launch/tree/main/sample_sensor_kit_launch) for example).

!!! note

>     At this point, you are now able to run planning_simulator.

Reviewer 2: I am assuming that the purpose of running the planning simulator is to test the vehicle and sensing packages.

```suggestion
    At this point, you are now able to run Autoware's Planning Simulator to do a basic test of your vehicle and sensing packages.
```

>     If you want to try, you may install Autoware (follow [here](https://autowarefoundation.github.io/autoware-documentation/main/installation/autoware/)) and run the following command:

Reviewer 2: Since the developer has already cloned the Autoware repository to get this far, we should say that the developer can finish the Autoware installation process.

```suggestion
    To do so, you need to build and install Autoware using your cloned repository. Follow the [steps for either Docker or source installation](https://autowarefoundation.github.io/autoware-documentation/main/installation/autoware/)) (starting from the dependency installation step) and then run the following command:
```

    ```bash
    ros2 launch autoware_launch planning_simulator.launch.xml vehicle_model:=YOUR_VEHICLE sensor_kit:=YOUR_SENSOR_KIT map_path:=/PATH/TO/YOUR/MAP
    ```

## 5. Create a `vehicle_interface` package

You need to create an interface package for your vehicle.
The package is expected to provide the following two functions.

1. Receive command messages from `vehicle_cmd_gate` and drive the vehicle accordingly

> 2. Send vehicle status information of the vehicle to Autoware

Reviewer 2: It should be clear that vehicle status is "of the vehicle", so those words can be removed.

```suggestion
2. Send vehicle status information to Autoware
```

> You can find detailed information about the requirements of `vehicle_interface` [here](https://autowarefoundation.github.io/autoware-documentation/main/design/autoware-interfaces/components/vehicle-interface/).

Reviewer 2: Adding meaningful link text.

```suggestion
You can find detailed information about the requirements of the `vehicle_interface` package in the [Vehicle Interface design documentation](https://autowarefoundation.github.io/autoware-documentation/main/design/autoware-interfaces/components/vehicle-interface/).
```

> You can also refer to [pacmod_interface](https://github.com/tier4/pacmod_interface) as an example.

Reviewer 2: Rephrased sentence. 

```suggestion
You can also refer to Tier IV's [pacmod_interface repository](https://github.com/tier4/pacmod_interface) as an example of a vehicle interface package.
```

## 6. Launch Autoware

This section briefly explains how to run your vehicle with Autoware.

### Install Autoware

> Follow the step [here](https://autowarefoundation.github.io/autoware-documentation/pr-86/installation/autoware/).

Reviewer 2: * Changed URL to point to the main documentation branch rather than pr-86.
* Added a note that users should clone their forked Autoware repository and not the one specified in the documentation

```suggestion
Follow the steps [here](https://autowarefoundation.github.io/autoware-documentation/main/installation/autoware/), remembering to clone your forked Autoware repository!
```

```bash
cd autoware.YOURS
./setup-dev-env.sh
mkdir src
vcs import src < autoware.repos
source /opt/ros/galactic/setup.bash
rosdep install -y --from-paths src --ignore-src --rosdistro $ROS_DISTRO
colcon build --symlink-install --cmake-args -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release

> ```

Reviewer 2: Why are the installation steps being included here after cross-referencing the installation documentation page above?

### Launch Autoware

> Launch autoware with the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Launch Autoware with the following command:
```

```bash
ros2 launch autoware_launch autoware.launch.xml vehicle_model:=YOUR_VEHICLE sensor_kit:=YOUR_SENSOR_KIT map_path:=/PATH/TO/YOUR/MAP
```

### Set initial pose

If GNSS is available, Autoware automatically initializes the vehicle's pose.

> If not, you should set the initial pose using GUI on RViz.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If not, you need to set the initial pose using the RViz GUI.
```

1. Click the 2D Pose estimate button in the toolbar, or hit the P key
2. In the 3D View pane, click and hold the left mouse button, and then drag to set the direction for the initial pose.

### Set goal pose

Set a goal pose for the ego vehicle.

1. Click the 2D Nav Goal button in the toolbar, or hit the G key
2. In the 3D View pane, click and hold the left mouse button, and then drag to set the direction for the goal pose.
   If successful, you will see the calculated planning path on RViz.

### Engage

In your terminal, execute the following command.

```bash
source ~/autoware.YOURS/install/setup.bash
ros2 topic pub /autoware.YOURS/engage autoware_auto_vehicle_msgs/msg/Engage "engage: true" -1
```

You can also engage via RViz with "AutowareStatePanel".
The panel can be found in Panels > Add New Panel > tier4_state_rviz_plugin > AutowareStatePanel.

> Now the vehicle should drive the calculated path!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now the vehicle should drive along the calculated path!
```

## 7. Tune parameters for your vehicle & environment

You may need to tune your parameters depending on the domain in which you will operate your vehicle.

> If you have any issues or questions, feel free to ask in [Autoware Foundation Discussion](https://github.com/orgs/autowarefoundation/discussions)!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have any issues or questions, feel free to create an [Autoware Foundation GitHub Discussion](https://github.com/orgs/autowarefoundation/discussions) in the Q&A category!
```
